---
layout: post
title:  "test"
date:   2019-04-14 14:00:00 +0400
categories: test
---

Case Studies - Damac Properties
Web Portal and Landing Pages
One of the largest property developers in the Middle East, Damac Properties has extensive infrastructure - and one of the most important sources of leads and customer access points is the main portal for the group at www.damacproperties.com. Having been visited more than 6 million times last year, Damac wanted to have a revamped architecture that would serve content and provide landing pages for the hundreds of properties, both completed and under construction - and serve them at lightning fast speeds, and very securely as well.
It was decided to approach the whole concept of content serving in a different manner. Separating the content-creation and content-serving into separate engines is the key to enhance performance. The website is served to the public using ReactJS as a static pages and the speed/performance improved. GastbyJS build is used as a static web site generator, which accesses the contents from the headless Drupal8 CMS leveraging GraphQL for the extraction during the build.
Once the static website is generated as a set of HTML, JS,CSS files it is pushed to Amazon S3, a powerful serverless web-hosting platform. The S3 website is served via a CloudFront CDN to make it faster and to utlize caching. In this way, the website is fully managed, scaled by S3 and CloudFront makes it available globally with speed.
Technologies used: AWS, EC2, EBS, ELB, S3, CloudFront, CloudWatch, CodeDeploy, RDS, Gatsby JS, React
Scalability is infinite, determined by S3 and CloudFront limits. Performance of the portal has increased dramatically.
Reference architecture is shown below.
